I. Fast API project structure explained:

1 - main.py:

This is what contains your app instance. Smaller apps will have all your routes and API endpoints here as well.
These will typically be created using @app.get and @app.post decorators + different ones for other HTTP methods.

This is how decorated functions under @app.get know the type of data that is passed in as a parameter

Is the argument name in the URL path?
                                      /              \
                                   [Yes]             [No]
                                    /                  \
                    It's a Path Parameter.       Is it a simple type (int, str) 
                                                 or a Pydantic Model?
                                                   /              \
                                            [Simple Type]     [Pydantic Model]
                                                 /                  \
                                     It's a Query Parameter.     It's the Request Body

In a larger app you will typically use different routers to organize all your different routes. 
You will import these routers into this file and include them to your app instance. All your routers will typically be in
a router folder as separate router files pertaining to different parts of your app

app instancs are created as follows: app = FastAPI() and depend on the following input: from fastapi import FastAPI


2 - schemas.py:

This file contains all your Pydantic schemas. Pydantic is inclded in fastapi and a major advantage of fastapi is its strong
integration with pydantic. Pydantic is a python library that takes python type hints and enforces them rather than using them simoply
as documentation. Thes Pydantic schemas help define the general structure of data that can be sent and received by user at a 
particular endpoint. We can include a response_model=ModelName as a keyword argument in an endpoint decorator in main. This will 
result in fastapi throwing an error when the data received is not of the form (types) expected.

The following imports are typical in a Pydantic schemas file:

from pydantic import ConfigDict, BaseModel, Field

Every Pydantic Schema we define is typically a class and inherits BaseModel. When it inherits BaseModel this lets pydantic know
that the following class is a Pydantic schema.  

Field allows us to enforce constraints like minimum length and maximum length on data.

ConfigDict allows us to configure models such that they can read data from object attributes with dot notation 
instead of simply being able to read from dictionaries

This is specifically so a Pydantic schema can be built directly from a SQLAlchemy model instance
(which has .attribute access, not dict-like ["key"] access) — e.g. when you return an ORM object from an endpoint
and FastAPI needs to convert it to your response schema. 
In Pydantic v1 this was called orm_mode = True; v2 renamed it from_attributes. 

We will then import all these Pydantic schemas into main in order to use them as response models and request body accept types

3 - database.py:

We use databses when we need persistent data (i.e data that exists in our system even when the app is restarted or loses power)
Typically when using fastapi, instead of dealing with a database directly we use something known as an ORM (Onject Relational Mapper)
An object relational mapper is software that maps classes in our code to tables in our database and that allows us to query the tables in
our database simply by using python instead of SQL

sqlalchemy is the recommended ORM for dealing with fastapi and the one I will be using although there is a strong argument
to be made for using SQLModel instead as well.

To use a database we need two files: a database.py and a models.py file. We will detail the uses of a databse.py file below:

The databse file is used to create connection to the database and a session factory. It also contains a function that 
should yield database sessions to any endpoint that may require it

What is a session? - When working with a databse via an ORM, we work with it in sessions. Sessions can simply be viewed
as periods of time within which we are working with a database. Sessions need to be created and closed so that we work with the database
in a restricted and protected fashion. 

A session factory can be broadly viewed as an object that creates sessions

Typical imports for this file inlude:

from sqlalchemy import create_engine
from sqlalchemy.orm import sessionmaker, DeclarativeBase

create_engine() establishes our connection to the database, sessionmaker is the sessionfactory and 
DeclarativeBase is the base class that all our model classes in models.py will have to inherit from in order to be considered tables

In the database.py file we create a class called Base that inherits from DeclarativeBae and is empty (contains only pass)
such that we can import this into our models and have every class inherit from this itself. This is simply convention.

Then we have a function called get_db defined here that uses a generator and a context manager to yield databse sessions to
endpoints in main. This is important (read database.py file for explanation in comments) and the function ends up being imported in main.py.

4 - models.py:

This is the file we use to create all our databse tables. We import the Base class from databases.py that inherits from DeclarativeBase
and make all the classes here inherit from Base

Then each class is treated as a table and we create columns and relationships between them. This file typically includes a lot of imports for
Column types and Relationships (like ForeignKey)

Example of imports:

from sqlalchemy import DateTime, ForeignKey, Integer, String, Text # Here we import some column types and relationships (ForeignKey)
from sqlalchemy.orm import Mapped, mapped_column, relationship
# Mapped[...] is a type hint tool that serves two primary purposes: it brings full type safety and auto-complete to your IDE, and it standardizes how SQLAlchemy builds your database columns.
